0002: Add usecases (#7)
matmair/project: docs/adr/0002-permissions.md

- Using any dynamic scoping that is not pre-defined - I want to avoid having to calculate permissions on the fly as much as possible for performance and audit logging (#9996) reasons
- The ability for users to easily move objects between workspaces - this should be a deliberate action that requires admin access and is not done lightly (also because it is probably api-expensive)

## Usecases

### UC1: Marcus is a libarian
(1) He can create and modify components.
(2) But he cannot delete them.
(3) He also cannot add supplierparts and prices.

### UC2: Harold is working in the purchasing department
(1) He adds suppliers and their prices to the parts.
(2) But he cannot modify the parts or the parameters.

> (3) He can also create and edit purchase orders.

Author: Can harold issue purchase orders?

Reviewer: Yes he can.

Author: So this would be correct?
```suggestion
### UC2: Harold is working in the purchasing department
(1) He adds suppliers and their prices to the parts.
(2) But he cannot modify the parts or the parameters.
(3) He can also create, edit and issue purchase orders.
```

Reviewer: yes

- Using any dynamic scoping that is not pre-defined - I want to avoid having to calculate permissions on the fly as much as possible for performance and audit logging (#9996) reasons
- The ability for users to easily move objects between workspaces - this should be a deliberate action that requires admin access and is not done lightly (also because it is probably api-expensive)

## Usecases

### UC1: Marcus is a libarian
(1) He can create and modify components.
(2) But he cannot delete them.
(3) He also cannot add supplierparts and prices.

### UC2: Harold is working in the purchasing department
(1) He adds suppliers and their prices to the parts.
(2) But he cannot modify the parts or the parameters.
(3) He can also create and edit purchase orders.

### UC3: Monika is a designer

> (1) She can view all parts, suppliers and prices because her job is also the create cost efficient designs.

Author: ```suggestion
(1) She can view all parts, suppliers and prices because her job is to create cost efficient designs.
```

(2) But she has no edit rights at all.

### UC4: Barbara is a student worker supporting Monica.

> (1) She can also see all the components.

Author: ```suggestion
(1) She can see all the components.
```

(2) But not the prices because this might leak too much data.

### UC5: Max is a tester working on the Astro project
(1) He can add and modify test results to all parts related to the Astro project.
(2) He can also see the results from the Moonshot project for comparison but he cannot edit them.

> (3) When Max goes on vacation for two weeks he introduces Oliver as his deputy who usually works on Moonshot. For the time of Max vacation Oliver can edit Moonshot and Astro parts.

Author: I think this is to complex, I would like to remove this @SergeoLacruz

Reviewer: I see. This wound add a time dependent access rule. Deputies can also manually be added by an admin for vacation time. It is nice but not really required.

Author: So we can remove this? We do not have the concept of deputies in the system right now and I think that should be a separate discussion

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Correct

### UC6: Bruce is working in the warehouse.
(1) He can shuffle around stock items and boxes between locations.

> (2) But he cannot create new locations. This is up to Marvin who makes the floor plan of the warehouse.

Author: We will need a separate UC for Marvin

Reviewer: Warehouse floor plan design. I am not sure if we really need this. Sometimes even Bruce creates a new location like Box 138 for delivery to xyz. Lets delete line 161 for the moment.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: OK

### UC7: Mike works in the factory.

> (1) He can create parts that are manufactured, add serial numbers, and other data.

Author: Which other data @SergeoLacruz ?

Reviewer: e.g. manufacturing comments like "done rework on R34". Do we have those?

Author: No, not at the moment. So can we change this to
```suggestion
(1) He can create parts that are manufactured, add serial numbers and tests.
```

Reviewer: OK

> (2) But he cannot add or modify parts for design as Marcus can.

Author: @SergeoLacruz How would the system decipher which part is for design? Probably most parts are for design

Reviewer: Mhhhh... Good question.
All R, C, L, ... are for design. Those are created by libarians
Manufactured parts are the product. 
But you are right, I do not see a good method to distinguish between them in the actual system. 
I need to think about it.

Author: I do not think this is a complexity that should be handled in core and would remove this line
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is the major reason why we decided to track protos elsewhere. Mike needs to edit the parts he manufactured. But he shall not be able to edit all library parts. This will make proto tracking in Inventree useless.

Author: I do not see how this differs from the current system, I am not aware that there is support for this currently

Author: What if we change it to:
```
1) He can create builds and stock items, add serial numbers and tests.
2) He can create parts in the `msa/rocket` workpace
3) But he can not create parts in other workspaces
```
I do not see how we can - from a technical point - distinguish between parts before we create them

Reviewer: Every part needs to be assigned to a project during creation.
Mike can a part if he assigns it to flluxcompensator because he is assigned to this project.
He cannot crate a part assigned to other projects.
All basic parts like R and C are assigned to  library. This would also allow to have different libraries, E.g. one for electrical parts and another one for the IT guys who store all their mice and keyboards in the system. 
Name it project or workspace...

Author: In this proposed change it is called workspaces and I think we will need to be precise when we discuss things as someone (probably me) will implement massive system changes based on this doc

(2) But he cannot modify the parts or the parameters.

(3) He can also create, edit and issue purchase orders.

### UC3: Monika is a designer

(1) She can view all parts, suppliers and prices because her job is to create cost efficient designs.

(2) But she has no edit rights at all.

### UC4: Barbara is a student worker supporting Monica

(1) She can see all the components.

(2) But not the prices because this might leak too much data.

### UC5: Max is a tester working on the Astro project

(1) He can add and modify test results to all parts related to the Astro project.

(2) He can also see the results from the Moonshot project for comparison but he cannot edit them.

(3) When Max goes on vacation for two weeks he introduces Oliver as his deputy who usually works on Moonshot. For the time of Max vacation Oliver can edit Moonshot and Astro parts.

### UC6: Bruce is working in the warehouse

(1) He can shuffle around stock items and boxes between locations.

(2) But he cannot create new locations. This is up to Marvin who makes the floor plan of the warehouse.

### UC7: Mike works in the factory

(1) He can create parts that are manufactured, add serial numbers and tests.

> (2) But he cannot add or modify parts for design as Marcus can.

Author: ```suggestion
(1) He can create builds and stock items, add serial numbers and tests.

(2) He can create parts in the `msa/rocket` workpace

(3) But he can not create parts in other workspaces
```
